Although it is not an opinion that I share, it is one that I respect.
This argument, based on the risk of terrorist attacks, could lead us to get rid of the gas industry or stop drinking water, and I find that absurd.
My conclusion simply follows the line taken by the Commission.
I admit it is not likely to make very good press copy, but it does have the advantage of being sensible.
We should identify the dangerous sites and improve the protection of targets.
Perhaps we should also take other security measures, but these must be implemented without delay.
Studies are something we do not need.
Mr President, please allow me a final word. We should not give the impression of total security.
That can be had only at the price of total surveillance, which cannot be reconciled with a free state under the rule of law.
Mr President, Commissioner Vitorino, I should like to make a few observations.
Our group has already talked about the consequences of recent events for nuclear power plants and mentioned, inter alia, a package of measures which is already being discussed in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
We endorse the quest for common security regulations, such as those formulated in document 30 of the E.C.A.C. What we are mainly concerned with here, in addition to issues of supervision, is adopting a special approach to vulnerable areas.
We, of course, are of the opinion that such a debate must in any case be genuine, certainly when it comes to protecting privacy.
I should like to bring one aspect to your attention, for we are concerned here with an extension of the threat to include not only additional targets but also additional modes of transport.
I would like to draw your attention to the use of other means of transport - something which we have already noted - such as tankers containing chemicals, and ask the Commissioner for his thoughts on the matter.
In shipping too, it is relatively simple to force a ship in a port such as Rotterdam to take a different course and to direct it towards very explosive installations.
In other words, not only aviation but also other means of transport should be discussed.
Mr President, installations at risk, such as nuclear power plants, flood-control dams, ports, oil depots, extremely tall buildings and research centres for biological warfare and for genetic manipulation will never lose their appeal for terrorists.
That is why we must ensure that the number of installations which can threaten the life of human communities and of our environment is reduced to a minimum.
Instead of subsidising airline companies with tax money, enabling them to continue pulling off stunts involving low prices, it would be preferable to completely close vulnerable regions to air traffic.
Moreover, vulnerable airports near cities or with insufficient security provisions in place, as in the recent case of Linate near Milan - an airport that should have been closed down years ago - should not have a future.
The unbalanced pursuit of economic growth, freedom for airline companies and the rolling back of government has, in connection with the sad events of 11 September, led to too little attention being paid, on the one hand, to the risk of industrial buildings collapsing and, on the other hand, to government supervision of access to airports by people with malicious intentions.
It is not the first time that I am bringing these two matters to the attention of the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 11 September will go down as a crucial date in the history of the modern era in general and for the aviation sector in particular, for which we can talk about a before and an after.
I wish, first of all, to express my solidarity with the victims of these cowardly and barbaric attacks and with the government of the United States and also to unreservedly, roundly and unambiguously condemn terrorism.
Improving the security of transport users and transported goods was and must continue to be one of the Union' s priorities for action in coming years.
I am delighted that this is the view adopted in the White Paper on transport policy presented by the Commission only a few months ago.
We must not forget that a safe journey is the most important right of any passenger.
The ongoing safety and competitiveness of this sector require the rapid adoption of the latest Commission proposals on air safety and the 'single sky' package.
We must also take account of other measures that were already on the table, such as the JAR-OPS Regulation, the draft directive on occurrence reporting in civil aviation and the proposal on the professional competence of cabin crew.
All of these texts, Commissioner, must be approved as soon as possible.
To conclude, I would say that the disastrous action taken on the air transport sector in recent weeks has shown the extent to which the European Union has a pivotal role in responding to the need for regulation at both Community and world-wide level.
Only a European vision will enable us to confront new challenges such as international terrorism, for which international intergovernmental forums can no longer provide a sufficiently rapid or effective response.
Parliament has a duty to support the Commission on these proposals to restore the public confidence and safety that have been lost.
It is at times like this that we must make Europe' s presence felt.
Lastly, I also wish to address the Council, which must now find the ability and the courage to support and take decisions that ensure that civil aviation will continue to be safe, reliable and sustainable from every point of view.
I wish to deal briefly with two issues: one I have already addressed, that is the state of the airline industry in Europe.
I welcome the fact that the Commissioner has announced that the European Union is going to meet with the US authorities to discuss unfair competition, but that is a grossly inadequate response to the current crisis in the aviation industry.
I would like some clarity about what precisely the Commission is doing.
There is a report in Irish newspapers today that the Commission is insisting that the rescue and aid package the Irish government will provide for Aer Lingus must be privately funded.
Now, that is a gross distortion of the treaties which are neutral as regards where aid or money should come from to assist the aviation industry.
I want clarity on this.
Is that what the Commission is demanding or is the Irish government playing its own privatisation game under cover of the present crisis?
The second point I wish to make is in relation to the nuclear and chemical industries in Europe.
The report which is coming before STOA this week makes for worrying reading.
It will hopefully be made public very soon, but the reality is that Sellafield and Cap de la Hague were a risk even before 11 September 2001; the chemical plants in our midst were a risk even before Toulouse.
It seems to me that we need commitments from the Commission that we are going to have an independent European inspectorate.
Madam President, after the 11 September atrocity we are in a new situation.
Acts of malice and not just accidents are the focus of our concern.
No-fly zones should be established immediately around the two reprocessing plants in the EU: Sellafield and Cap de la Hague.
Power plants generally are a ticking time-bomb in our midst.
The only logical response is to close them all down and end this terrible threat.
The French government has already moved to strengthen anti-terrorist precautions at Cap de la Hague.
These include ground-to-air missiles.
The German government has concluded that nuclear reactors could not withstand a collision with a targeted passenger jet.
It has undertaken an emergency risk assessment.
Government ministers oppose anti-aircraft defences and have made it clear that plants that lie in the flight paths of large airports can be shut down if they are rated as serious risk.
The US government has halted the transport of nuclear materials, and the EU government should also immediately halt the transport of nuclear materials, including MOX fuels.
I do not believe that the response we have had so far from the Commission is at all adequate.
The IAEA has confirmed that 75% of the notifications of incidents involving nuclear material in the last year were illegal activities.
Nuclear materials are currently clearly not secure and not safe.
Neither Sellafield nor la Hague was designed to withstand the impact of a commercial jet.
They contain tens of thousands of tonnes of spent nuclear fuel and over 100 tonnes of separated plutonium between them.
A new report, which is both timely and in terms of content deeply worrying, has been prepared for the European Parliament.
I understand it will be circulated tomorrow by the STOA committee.
I expect it to be circulated.
I wonder why it has not already been circulated to Members, as I believe it has already been circulated to the industry?
The report states that an act of malice - and this was presented to us before September - could initiate a sequence of events that release radioactive material in the liquid high-level waste tanks, in Sellafield in particular, with effects much greater and more devastating than Chernobyl.
This is very serious.
I need an adequate response from the Commission, and so far we have not had it.
Mr President, I made my point about the STOA report when we were discussing the order of business.
Successive Irish governments have voiced their concern about the operation of the Sellafield plant, formerly known as Windscale, and in particular the innumerable security breaches by the BNFL and the arrogance of the British authorities towards the legitimate concerns of a sovereign and friendly neighbour.
The commissioning of the MOX plant when the eyes of the international media were firmly focused elsewhere in the wake of the tragedy of September 11, 2001 is but the latest example, and is particularly serious, given the heightened concerns now of terrorist attacks.
Could the Commission confirm that the same security standards that are now deemed necessary in Cap de la Hague - that is protection with fighter planes and ground-to-air missiles and a no-fly zone - are in place in Sellafield?
Does the Commission agree that there is an urgent need for common security standards for all nuclear installations, not just in the EU-15, but in accession countries as well?
Could the Commission also comment on the lack of effectiveness of the present inspectorate in this regard?
Mr President, I am very grateful to the Commission for using today's statement to take up a theme that currently causes a great deal of concern to the people of Europe.
I also welcome the way the Commission deals explicitly with all the areas at especial risk, and, in particular, its inclusion of industrial plant and nuclear power stations, which was demanded on Austria's initiative in Parliament's resolution on the events of 11 September.
We know that precautions were taken at several nuclear power stations in Europe to enable them to survive the impact of smaller aircraft at least.
Does the Commission have an overview showing which nuclear power stations did not do this, and what is planned at a European level to reinforce protection measures overall, at least at these stations but also at all others?
We know that no nuclear power station is completely safe, and that some are not technically up to date in other respects of relevance to safety.
It would be all the more surprising if there really were a letter from Commissioner Verheugen, confirming that the Temelin plant is completely safe.
As such a statement would contradict everything international experts have found out about Temelin, I cannot believe that this statement about its safety was actually made by Mr Verheugen.
I therefore ask the Commission to show this document, addressed to the Czech and Austrian governments, to Parliament.
We have been very committed to this issue, and I think Parliament deserves, even if the Commission takes an opposing view....
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, much as I love Senator Doyle and her Irish friends, she is quite wrong about Sellafield in my constituency.
I told her so, and the Irish government so when I was the Northern Ireland Minister responsible for Energy and I reiterate that view now.
I applaud the British government's decision on the MOX plant, a long overdue decision which is going to ensure the economic and employment future of my constituents.
So my message on that is to keep your hands off Sellafield.
Briefly, about aviation.
I congratulate Commissioner Palacio on the actions that she has already taken but there are three things we need to emphasise: firstly we must protect the aircraft on the ground; once someone is on the aircraft they can do more damage.
Secondly we must renew and reinvigorate security screening at airports and thirdly we must assist with the costs of security and war-risk insurance.
We must restore public confidence in aviation and the sooner the better.

Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, personally speaking, I believe that I can welcome the fact that the approach adopted by the Commission with regard to both air safety and security and the safety of industrial and nuclear installations has received wide support from Members here.
To sum up, I will add that we have drawn up an intervention programme, which strictly observes competences - not simply Community competences, but Member States' competences as well.
That is why I can assure you that, as regards matters for which the Commission has direct responsibility under the Treaties, we have taken all the necessary measures to deal with the new situation created by the terrorist attacks on the United States.
We shall continue to put pressure on the Member States so that they also shoulder their responsibilities and adopt the necessary measures that are part of their competences.
This applies to the examples given regarding the security of the Sellafield and Cap de La Hague re-processing plants.
I would like to stress that this is part of national competences and that it is the national authorities that inform us that the necessary measures have been taken.
The Commission recognises the need to begin an assessment of nuclear security and the security of transporting nuclear materials.
I mentioned this in my presentation and I hope that the assessment that the Commission is currently preparing will soon be completed.
As far as air safety and security are concerned, I am pleased that several Members of Parliament have welcomed our legislative initiative with open arms and I hope that the regulation that we have proposed can be examined by Parliament as a matter of urgency.
I would also like to stress that we must improve how we follow up on measures taken at national level, just as the ad hoc group is doing, which is responsible for assessing specific administrative measures that need to be taken to improve air security.
Mr President, I would like to make a final comment.
I referred to the conditions relating to competition and to the strategy implemented by the Commission to avoid distorting competition within the context of the Euro-American dialogue on security.
This was the context in which I dealt with the issue of competition.
We believe that the solutions we are seeking must be international and must take into consideration the need to avoid imposing measures that are excessive and which may distort competition globally.
This was the background to what I said.
I did not mention other measures concerning competition policy related to the effects of the terrorist attacks on the commercial strategy of airlines.
I did not deal with specific questions, such as those that some Members of Parliament wanted to bring up during the debate.
All I can do is refer Members to the conclusions of the meeting that my colleague, Mrs Loyola De Palacio, held with the representatives of the airline companies' association.
I have taken careful note of the fact that some of you thought that the Commission proposals were insufficient or too ideological.
I have taken careful note of your comments. I shall pass them on to Mrs De Palacio, but I repeat that, for the time being, this is the official position of the Commission.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Mr Fitzsimons has the floor on a point of order.
It is not the first time I have heard Commissioners come into this House and say they have no obligations in relation to nuclear power plants and that this is a matter for the Member States.
But clearly the European Commission should and must carry out an independent evaluation of all the environmental and public health risks, not just for Ireland and for all the UK but for all the people of Europe.
This has been side-stepped down the years but it is high time that the Commission bites the bullet.
For this type of question, you can contact the Commissioner directly.
I just want to agree with what my colleague Mr Fitzsimons says.
I have a report here by Parliament, from the STOA committee.
Mrs Ahern, I will say the same to you that I said to Mr Fitzsimons: this is not a point of order.
European judicial area/SIS II
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports by Mr von Boetticher, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs:
A5-0339/2001 on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a general framework for Community activities to facilitate the implementation of a European judicial area in civil matters
[COM(2001) 221 - C5-0254/2001 - 2001/0109(CNS)];
A5-0333/2001 on the initiative of the Kingdom of Belgium and of the Kingdom of Sweden with a view to the adoption:
1. of a Council Regulation on the development of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II)
[9844/2001 - C5-0315/2001 - 2001/0818(CNS)]
2. of a Council Decision on the development of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II)
[9845/2001 - C5-0316/2001 - 2001/0819(CNS)].
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today sees the fulfilment of a small dream.
I have ten minutes' speaking time, as much as only a Group chairman can normally expect.
This, however, comes about through the grouping together of two reports, which do not actually belong together.
So I would prefer to speak on them separately.
Let me begin with the area of civil law.
When the Maastricht Treaty came into force in 1993, judicial cooperation in civil matters became a matter of common concern for the Member States.
Then the Treaty of Amsterdam, by means of Article 65 of the Treaty Establishing the European Community, transferred this cooperation from the third pillar to the first.
Its entry into force brought about active European lawmaking.
Regulations on conflicts of law or of jurisdiction were adjusted, the Council directive on insolvency procedures and on the service of legal documents in civil and commercial cases was adopted, and draft directives on the gathering of evidence and on rights of access in matrimonial cases were submitted to the Council.
The entry into force of the present Treaty of Nice means that future decisions on judicial cooperation in civil matters will finally be reached by codecision procedure with qualified majority in the Council.
You can see that things in this field are developing at breakneck speed.
Member States will continue to have sole responsibility for the framework and content of professional training in civil law, but it will be the Community's responsibility to support them whether in the removal of obstacles to the application of Community law or in the cooperation of the judicial authorities.
In no area of European law is continuing professional education so imperative as in civil law, in which harmonisation has already made progress.
Criminal and administrative law, on the other hand, are still only at the beginning of their European development.
This continuing education was formerly supported by two EU programmes.
GROTIUS, the joint incentive and exchange programme for the legal profession, came to an end in 2000.
This promotion was maintained only by a successor programme, GROTIUS Programme Civil, which was limited to one year.
The same year saw the expiry of the Robert Schuman Project, which had been limited to three years and served to make lawyers more aware of Community law.
The Commission proposal before us today now represents the legal basis for further financial support for activities in the field of legal cooperation in civil matters.
It promotes judicial cooperation and improved mutual understanding of legal systems, as well as measures to transpose and implement Community legislation in this area and better information for the public.
For the first time, alongside finance for specific projects, there is the prospect of financial help with the running costs of European NGOs.
I can only emphatically support that.
The facilitation of involvement by the acceding countries is also especially to be welcomed.
Apart from the essential rejoicing at the direction of this draft, which is made all the greater by the generous financial framework amounting to EUR 14.5 million up to 2006, there remain a few critical points.
The stipulation that NGOs can only apply for support if two-thirds of the Member States participate in them can hardly be complied with even today.
The prospect of enlargement therefore makes it a matter of urgency to reduce this hurdle to one-third, or else this directive's good beginnings will be nipped in the bud.
I also wonder why the Commission, contrary to its former practice - for example in the context of the GROTIUS programmes - has omitted to define precisely who is entitled to apply, members of the legal profession in this case.
The debate on the money-laundering directive showed us how vital it is in this area to define terms.
Member States must not have discretion to define terms when support with European funds is at issue.
I have therefore proposed the adoption of the old definition from the GROTIUS civil law programme.
I would also like to say, on this point, that I would have been glad if the EU had continued to bear up to 80% of project costs, rather than reducing this share to 50%.
This was, however, not what the relevant committee wanted.
I think, though, that the EU continues to bear a great responsibility for the further development of judicial cooperation.
This responsibility is likely to increase rather than decrease in the future.
Here, too, we must continue to be a motive force.
So much for the first part concerning the area of civil law; I now come to the debate on the Schengen Information System.
The Schengen Information System was established in 1995 on the basis of the Convention of 1990 which implemented the Schengen Agreement.
Today, as a police investigation system overlapping states and supported by computers, it facilitates online access to over 8 million items of data produced by investigations and is thus the most comprehensive database in Europe.
It is used by Iceland and Norway as well as thirteen EU Member States.
All this makes SIS a successful component of a new European internal security policy, made necessary by the dismantling of internal borders and the resulting loss of surveillance.
Two problems concern us today, the first being advances in technology.
The Schengen Information System as we know it today was originally conceived for eighteen Member States.
The fact that all the present acceding countries will join in SIS on their accession makes it urgently necessary to give thought today to what will be its successor.
Technology has moved on in the meantime as well.
The initiative taken by the kingdoms of Sweden and Belgium to develop SIS II are therefore much to be welcomed.
As the development of SIS II will require over three years' preparatory work, these initiatives lay the necessary legal foundations for its budget.
The originators have, however, overshot their mark a bit.
In order to ensure the maximum influence on technical development, the Member States are to take part in the comitological process through a combination of administrative and regulatory committees.
This will therefore involve a maximum of additional bureaucratic effort.
It is not clear to me why, at a development stage where only technical aspects are to be discussed, the Member States are to join in discussing and deciding on every detail.
The suggestion that a regulatory committee should be in place to deal with all matters concerning the system's architecture and with data protection issues, also goes against Council decision 468/99. This stated that recourse should be had to the regulatory procedure only for measures of general scope intended to apply essential provisions of basic legal instruments.
Such is quite evidently not the case here.
At this stage, I would like to point out to the representatives of the Council that, for example, when Eurodac was set up, there was deliberately no official participatory procedure, and the Member States exerted their influence only through an informal network of technical experts.
This saved us all a great deal of time and money and still produced an effective result.
At the same time, I have confidence in the technical know-how in this field possessed by the Commission, which is entrusted with guiding this development.
I therefore suggest to Member States that they replace the superfluous bureaucratic combination of administrative and regulatory procedure by a combination of administrative and consultative procedure.
Less is sometimes more.
The second problem is the development of law.
The Member States did admittedly decide as early as the Amsterdam Inter-Governmental Conference to integrate the Schengen Agreement into the European legal area, but lack of agreement meant that the Schengen Information System was assigned to the third pillar.
There is no doubt, however, that collection of data on persons who have been barred from entering a Member State is within the scope of the first pillar.
This is another reason why we have two initiatives today, one by the Belgian Presidency and another by Sweden.
As Europe's Parliament, we strive to integrate Schengen and the Schengen Information System into the first pillar, and as a whole if at all possible.
It is only in that way that appropriate parliamentary control can be guaranteed.
So I will go on the record as welcoming, as a step in this direction, the financing of Schengen II out of Community funds with effect from 2002.
The initiative unfortunately forgets to submit to Parliament the Commission's half-yearly interim reports on the stage the development has reached.
It is scarcely comprehensible that the budget procedure of the European Community should be applied to finance Schengen II without the body legislating for that budget - namely Parliament - being informed about these developments at the time.
However much the direction taken by the report's contents may be worthy of approval, in this respect there must be clear improvement.
Apart from that, I can only give my full and wholehearted support to the proposals as a whole.
I crave your indulgence for having to leave in about a quarter of an hour - as indeed must other ladies and gentlemen - but we have a meeting of the Committee on Citizen' s Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
We have some votes to take part in there as well.
So there is no disrespect for this House.
Thank you, Mr von Boetticher.
We are aware of this problem of meetings being scheduled to take place at the same time, especially with the aforementioned Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate Mr von Boetticher on his work on the two reports that he has just presented to us.
I should like to focus on the second report that deals with the Schengen system, which has come before Parliament not for reasons of clear political will, but because the Council has not been able to achieve unanimity on maintaining the system of intergovernmental funding, whilst a source of Community funding is also necessary.
These are the peculiarities of our work in the European institutions: many things happen for strange reasons and as a result of stopgap solutions.
I should like to say that this proposal to develop a new generation Schengen Information System, SIS II, can only be accepted as the first, preparatory, stage in the system' s development.
Community funding will not solve the problems that divide us in our analyses of the functioning of the SIS.
It is crucial, as I argued here last September, when I presented my report on Schengen, that in addition to Community funding, the Schengen Information System cannot continue to be managed in secret and on a purely intergovernmental basis. It must instead be managed at European Union level by a separate agency.
At the same time, a single Community information system must be set up consisting of a computer network system that contains data received under the three conventions, Schengen, Europol and Customs, bearing in mind the need to keep the data held under these conventions separate.
This is the only way in which we will be able to guarantee an adequate level of protection for personal data, which is fair and identical for all citizens, complying with the level of protection stipulated by the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Lastly, we know that the SIS is reaching saturation point with eighteen States participating, which means that it will not be able to survive beyond the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union, which also means that we must rapidly adapt the system.
I hope that the five years we have ahead of us will be long enough to present a proposal that is balanced and which meets the demands of the European Parliament.

Mr President, the initiative by Belgium and Sweden on the development of a second generation SIS system is underpinned by two legal bases: the decision laid down in the Treaty on European Union and the regulation laid down in the EC Treaty. This initiative addresses the objectives of the system, which serves both judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters under the third pillar and the fields of visas, asylum and immigration and others concerning the free movement of people under the first pillar.
These initiatives are the real premises of the preliminary work that must be undertaken in order to create the new SIS II system.
They have come into being, as has already been stated, as a result of the rejection of intergovernmental funding by some Member States and are based on the Commission' s willingness to take the risk and the political responsibility for going ahead with the development of this new information system in the years to come.
The SIS, which, as we know, has only been a Community instrument since 1999, has matured very quickly.
Although it was designed for twelve Member States, it now serves thirteen plus Iceland and Norway and we now have the United Kingdom and Ireland knocking on the door.
As we know, in the current historical circumstances, it provides a vital European source of information on citizens of third countries and assets that have disappeared or been stolen, given the immensity of the task of controlling our external borders or movement within any part of Community territory.
With the imminence of the new round of enlargement and given the challenges of adapting the new technologies and the new requirements, of which we are all aware, it is crucial that we develop the current system by providing Community funding for its modernisation.
The requirement for its development towards the so-called second generation SIS is, today, crucial to detecting threats arising from the situation of third-country nationals, in order to provisionally arrest criminals who qualify for extradition, to help to locate people who have disappeared or been kidnapped, to monitor dangerous individuals and to retrieve stolen goods and assets.
I am delighted to have the support of Mr von Boetticher, who has done an excellent job.
I also believe that tomorrow' s final vote on this report will produce a text on which it will be much easier for Parliament to agree on an opinion.
Mr President, only budgetary funding can give coherence to the new Community nature of the Schengen acquis, of which the current and future information systems are a part.
Furthermore, the new requirements for online and in tempo judicial information and cooperation should be able to guarantee the security of Europe' s citizens.
I therefore feel, Mr President, that we must not get bogged down in the minutiae of accounting procedures or of the law.
The important thing is that the SIS moves ahead, to the benefit of the citizens of Europe.
Mr President, I too should like to congratulate the rapporteur for this.
The rapporteur has produced two excellent reports.
He makes a first-class contribution to the work of the committee which I have the honour to chair.
I would like to talk very briefly about the first of these reports to do with the freedom of movement of people.
It is essential that we have a European legal space and that we pursue its development with judicial cooperation in civil matters.
The rapporteur quite rightly identifies the problems here and recognises that just as the single market required a massive benchmarking exercise, a massive exercise in approximation and mutual recognition, so too will the development of a European legal space require this.
In the second report the rapporteur looks at the problems that have emerged with the Schengen Information System and the opportunity to move forward to the second version of it, which clearly will be needed with enlargement.
We have here, in Strasbourg, with the central Schengen computer system, the most comprehensive databank in Europe.
It must be financed from our budget.
Sadly, the Belgian and Swedish initiatives, which propose a regulation for the First Pillar and a decision for the Third Pillar, show how ridiculous it is still to be operating with these two pillars.
In particular, Article 96, which is the article governing the data on those refused entry, must be in the First Pillar.
It contains the personal details of 1.3 million people and will contain substantially more with enlargement of the Union.
In conclusion I would draw the House's attention to the report from Justice last year that found significant defects in data protection, poor quality of data and obstacles placed in the way of individuals seeking to correct mistakes.
We must take account of this.
Mr President, instead of talking here today about the approval of a new generation of the Schengen Information System SIS II, we ought much rather to be discussing the disastrous consequences of the information system we already have.
I find it scandalous that the overwhelming majority of the persons listed in the SIS have not been charged with any criminal offence.
Only 11 000 people have their names stored in these computers because of an arrest warrant for the purpose of deporting them, but there are 780 000 listed as barred from entering any of the EU's Member States.
Article 99 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement states that the SIS can also be used to - as it is termed - obtain information in order to repel a significant danger originating from a specified person, or other significant dangers.
This provision means that the names of quite blameless citizens are to be found in the SIS computers.
This data was, for example, used in issuing demonstrators with unjustified bans on entry when the summit was held in Genoa.
As long as this continues, we cannot give any support to the further development of this Schengen Information System.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Mr von Boetticher for his work and also the Members who spoke after him.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for what has been gained through Parliament' s work, although we do feel that an essential element, democratic control, is missing.
Once again, we are being forced to agree to providing Community funding, as Mr Marinho said, in order to be able to have a say as well.
However, we feel that the European Council is continuing to do an appalling job, which, moreover, consists both of greatly increasing the number of databanks, and of greatly increasing the amount of data.
We know that, in addition to SIS, there are the - albeit revised - Europol and Eurodac databanks etc., and the latest addition will be the databank containing the index of criminal records used by Eurojust.
Hitherto, SIS has been a huge collection of information and notes on people and objects: it contains data entered by each Member State according to different laws and criteria which has been accessible to users at different levels of responsibility.
Among the errors which may have already been made, consider the case of the US citizen arrested in Belgium because he had lost his passport whom SIS recorded as a passport thief.
Reference has been made to the events in Genoa: thousands of people had been recorded in SIS after the incidents in Gothenburg, but this was of no benefit to the Italian police.
Basically, our view is that there will not only be more States entering data in this bank but also, essentially, more data.
Lastly, we do not believe that total control is compatible with the rule of law, as has been maintained.
Mr President, I congratulate Mr von Boetticher.
I am speaking on the European judicial area in civil matters.
When the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force, judicial cooperation in civil matters was transferred from the third pillar to the first, since when the European Community has elaborated an ambitious work programme in that area.
A detailed examination of the GROTIUS programme led to the conclusion that a new, more general, framework for activities in this field was needed.
The new framework regulation makes it possible to continue the projects already financed by the GROTIUS programme.
I thoroughly welcome this draft regulation by the Commission, which is intended to create a legal basis for the financing of judicial cooperation in civil matters by the EU Budget.
For the first time, the framework regulation also makes possible financial support for European non-governmental organisations, provided that these function on a non-profit basis and that their objectives serve to promote judicial cooperation.
It is greatly to be welcomed that acceding countries and third countries are able to participate in all these activities.
The limitation, proposed by the rapporteur and adopted by the Committee, to one-third of the involved Member States, is realistic and far-sighted, especially against the backdrop of the imminent enlargement up to 2006.
This regulation does not apply in Denmark, Ireland or the United Kingdom.
Legal practitioners in these countries can, however, participate in the projects alongside their counterparts from the acceding countries and elsewhere.
The concept of 'legal advisers' in this regulation has a quite different background from that in the directive on money laundering.
For that reason definition by means of a concluding list, as proposed by the rapporteur, would in this case inhibit the flexible use of this regulation in the future and limit its scope.
This is true, in particular, because it is difficult to translate correctly into all the Community languages without giving the terms for the relevant legal profession a different meaning, especially since individual Member States might in the future add other types of legal practitioner, who would then be barred from participation.
I would therefore prefer it if there were no list of these occupations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the Schengen Information System meant to achieve?
It aims to improve police cooperation in criminal law matters, to harmonise immigration and visa policy and to monitor the free movement of persons.
This monitoring, though, is targeted not least at migrants, who find it impossible or virtually impossible to travel to the EU legally, and the great majority of whom are fleeing situations that the EU may well not have created on its own but has substantially helped to bring about.
As many people have already mentioned today, the system is directed against those of the EU's citizens who incur its displeasure by wanting, for example, at a summit meeting, to express their disapproval of an EU policy which is characterised by lockouts and the capitalisation of essential areas of life.
It is becoming clear what this update of the Schengen Information System amounts to.
On the one hand, it is about the efficient use of the surveillance which technology and geography make possible.
At the same time, the EU wants the mere existence of these possibilities to mean that use is actually made of them.
Even the apparently technical changes in these proposals are also about improving the existing surveillance structure, and so this improvement needs to be financed.
And here I must disagree with Mr Turco and say that, in my judgment, nothing whatever in this project would be changed even by democratic control.
Seeing this from the Left, I believe this proposal cannot be supported.
Basic freedoms perform quite different functions in capitalism.
From a quite pragmatic point of view, though, they do guarantee the citizen a minimum of protection from the State.
It so happens, in the present situation, that most restrictions on basic rights....
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, as we all know, the current Schengen Information System has been in operation since 1995 but did not become a Community resource until 1999 when the Schengen acquis was adopted by the European Union in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Its Community identity, therefore, implies that any proposal to replace it must be bound by the same legal considerations governing how it was set up and operates and that any extension to its purpose must be subject to full democratic scrutiny by the relevant bodies, as previous speakers have stated.
The current climate, with the need for additional measures to safeguard our citizens and the inability of the current information system to meet that need, should not provide fertile ground for arbitrary derogations from and extensions to its powers.
The proposed legal framework needs to clarify certain crucial issues.
If natural persons are to be protected against personal data processing, the joint supervisory body set up in the Schengen Agreement needs to be involved.
This authority has been commissioned to draft an annual report on how the current system functions, including a systematic review and analysis of the new data which the new system will create.
At the same time, the European Parliament needs to step up efforts to ensure that the new system functions are monitored efficiently by calling for regular progress reports.
The point here is that, as far as the continuing application of the Schengen Agreement is concerned, the Council has only updated the European Parliament once, meaning that Parliament is unaware of issues which impinge directly on the free and unimpeded movement of citizens or how the Union's borders are controlled.
