We recognise there is genuine public concern about these issues but would like to emphasise the need to keep these matters in perspective.
I would like to emphasise that the safety of nuclear plants and other such industrial installations is primarily a national competence and responsibility.
In that context we look, for example, to the United Kingdom government to take all necessary short-term protective measures as well as to face up to the necessary longer-term decisions with regard to the disposal of radioactive waste.
Clearly, the events of 11 September 2001 in the United States call for a reassessment of the risk of attack on installations that we have previously regarded as secure and I welcome the statement from the Commissioner.
I only regret that it was not possible for Commissioner Loyola de Palacio to be able to speak to us - it had been our wish to hold this debate at the next part-session.
President, the basic premise of terrorism is that the unexpected, the unconsidered, the unbelievable will terrify the population into accepting political claims, whether they are rational or not.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your statement.
I welcome the cooperation you have outlined and the special attention which will be given to nuclear installations.
I hope that Member States will cooperate with the Commission in this work.
Our reaction must be to do all that we can to prevent the sort of widespread slaughter, injury and chaos we saw in the United States.
Air travel, nuclear power stations, chemical works and oil depots, are all obvious targets for terrorists.
They are designed, built and protected accordingly at very considerable cost to the public.
The French government now protects the reprocessing centre at La Hague with fighter planes and missiles.
No doubt the United Kingdom does likewise in Sellafield.
We cannot inhabit the weird minds of terrorists, but we can pay the high cost of protection.
We can work together and we can be very careful when we consider building, or indeed retaining, a potential target.
Things will not be the same after 11 September, as many others have said.
No one had conceived of using a fully loaded, large passenger plane as a weapon.
We have to factor that into our calculations.
Please keep reporting to Parliament.
We want the citizens of Europe to know that everything possible has been done to keep them safe.
Madam President, Commissioner, we have reached a serious point, a very serious point.
The worst-case scenario of terrorist air attacks on nuclear power stations, long condemned by the Greens and anti-nuclear citizens, is becoming, through force of circumstance, a valid hypothesis.
The fact that France has called on its armed forces in an attempt to protect its reactors is evidence that air attacks on nuclear plants are plausible.
The French authorities, which have always dismissed the possibility of terrorist attacks, are now forced to admit that their nuclear temples are indeed vulnerable.
And will the ground-to-air missiles deployed around the re-processing plant in The Hague be effective against a suicide attack?
The German authorities and the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna recognise that even the sturdiest nuclear power station would not survive a crash.
Throughout Europe and elsewhere in the world, the danger is certainly present, and it is made all the more acute because of the overwhelming number of nuclear reactors.
We cannot currently guarantee the safety of our citizens.
They are concerned and quite rightly so.
Has the Commission taken these disaster scenarios seriously?
How will it ensure the safety of our citizens?
And does the Commission intend to launch a study into the safety of nuclear power stations, as Germany has?
Lastly, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret the fact that my fellow Members from other groups did not deem it necessary to follow this debate with a resolution.
Madam President, Commissioner, the question regarding the safety of Europe' s skies is being considered in terms of immediate and urgent measures.
It is also being considered in terms of longer-term measures regarding security standards in aircraft and at boarding.
We have duly noted the Commission statements, particularly on the various measures taken regarding checks on passengers, on hand luggage, as well as on flights from third countries. In my view, these are wise comments.
We must also accelerate the completion of security programmes relating to checks on hold luggage and ensure that our decisions have been implemented.
I shall not go back over what was said earlier regarding the scandalous situation involving the AZF factory, only a few weeks after we held debates in this Chamber.
As far as safety on aircraft and at boarding are concerned, the events of 11 September show that two measures must be taken in aircraft design: cockpits must be sealed off and video monitors must be installed to enable the pilot to see anyone nearing the cockpit.
Secondly, there is the issue of transponders.
Transponders transmit the aircraft' s code and position to the air traffic control tower.
Transponders must be secure and it must no longer be possible to disconnect them during flights, as was the case during the attacks on the United States.
I would also like to draw Parliament' s attention to the issue of aid to the European airline industry.
To be honest, I think that it is extremely tactless, even provocative, for the Commission to open the debate on concentration within the airline industry at this point in time.
In addition to the economic battering that companies are taking, to confirm that Europe only has enough room for four or five airlines amounts to inviting mergers, restructuring and therefore redundancy plans.
On the other hand, several sources are predicting a 15 to 30% decrease in air traffic and the European Association of Air Carriers states that overall traffic levels will have decreased by more than 7% by 2002, incurring losses estimated to be over three billion euro.
In my view, the regulations on state aid to airlines must be extended in order to take into full consideration all the consequences of 11 September.
Lastly, I would like to say one final word to point out that these public funds are intended to help companies to continue to be viable.
I believe, therefore, that it is our duty to ensure that they are used and to avoid any redundancies in the sector.
Mr President, the goalposts have now changed, given the sheer level of inhumanity shown by terrorists pursuing their so-called political objectives.
Terrorists are now willing to engage in suicide missions.
This simply means that the international community must now fully re-evaluate how best it can put in place security measures to defeat these acts of blatant and premeditated terrorism.
From an Irish perspective, we are deeply concerned about the safety and security arrangements at the Sellafield nuclear plant in Cumbria.
At a time when one would expect a scaling-down of nuclear enterprises in Britain, the British government has announced that the MOX nuclear facility can go ahead at Sellafield.
Instead of closing the Sellafield nuclear plant on safety, environmental and economic grounds, the British governments has agreed to the expansion of operations there.
This is not only a problem for the Irish people: it is also a problem for the British people and for the wider European Union.
For instance, how do the British people like the idea of trains carrying nuclear materials continuing to run through London and other cities in Britain?
While the American government has halted the movement of potentially dangerous nuclear materials, BNFL is insisting that it will run its nuclear trains from reactors to its controversial Sellafield reprocessing plant.
In this growing atmosphere of international terrorism, surely it is grossly irresponsible to continue this transportation.
Equally, the transportation of nuclear materials via the Irish Sea sends shivers down the spine of many people living in Ireland.
As a representative of the East coast of Ireland, I have always resented the Irish Sea being used as a rubbish tip for the activities of British Nuclear Fuels.
The decision of the British government to expand the operations of the Sellafield nuclear plant is a contentious one by any stretch of the imagination.
The timing of this decision, however, is a highly cynical one, considering that it was made as a smokescreen at the same time as war was declared on terrorism.
This is a clear case of the British government using the war on terrorism to distract attention from awkward and contentious decisions.
In this climate this is simply not good enough.
The safety and security at the Sellafield plant is as much a matter of concern for the European Union as it is for the Irish and British governments.
The British government should make the honourable decision to close this nuclear white elephant once and for all.
But over the next few weeks the Commission should and must carry out a full and independent evaluation of all the environmental public health risks of all operations of BNFL at the Sellafield nuclear plant.
The people of Ireland are fed up with pious assurances from BNFL and the British government about safety standards at Sellafield.
We were all horrified recently when BNFL had to bring back nuclear materials from Japan, because it had falsified documents.
After this incident alone, how can any reasonable person believe for one moment anything that is written in a press release by BNFL?
I can assure all Members of this House that we in Ireland will vigorously pursue every political, legal and diplomatic option open to us to force the British government to close the Sellafield nuclear plant.
This Sellafield nuclear plant has achieved nothing, except to heap environmental misery on us all.

Mr President, Commissioner, the crisis in air transport unfolding before our very eyes following the terrorist attack on 11 September is, of course, exacerbated by factors such as structural problems in airline companies, the absence, so far, at least, of a single European airspace, which we hope will soon become a reality, and public concern about the safety of air transport.
We need to act as quickly as possible.
When we attended the ICAO assembly in Montreal recently with the European Parliament delegation, we clearly stated the European position that international measures should be taken at ministerial level by the end of the year.
And, of course, if, our hopes notwithstanding, there are delays, I think that the European Union should proceed unilaterally in order to establish a climate of safety in air transport.
As you all know, the Commission recently proposed an initial package of measures, referred to as ECAC document 30.
The parliamentary Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has promised to examine it as quickly as possible so that these measures can be turned into Community law by the end of the year, which is also in keeping with the Council's wishes.
For the same reason, the other three legislative proposals relating to safety will also be examined as quickly as possible.
There is also another package of measures relating to safety in the cockpit, video cameras, ground/air communications etc., that is, the measures to which the Commissioner referred.
As far as this matter is concerned, my point is that we are worried about the delay and about how the Member States' experts have worked up to now.
We trust that they will take the hint and improve their working methods from now on.
We are witnessing serious economic losses not just in air transport but in trade, tourism and other sectors of the economy.
We would be failing in our duty if we did not do our utmost to deal with this crisis.
Mr President, there is no doubt that nuclear power installations are not wholly safe from terrorist attacks.
No reactor could withstand the impact of a Boeing 747.
It would simply be wrong to assert anything else.
What is true of nuclear installations, though, is also true of other technological systems.
Mr Vitorino rightly pointed out that even a dam can be destroyed, and the Second World War shows that the consequences can be devastating.
An attack on a gasometer, such as can be found in the heart of our towns, could be positively appalling.
I might mention that some pressurised gasometers already operate at a lower pressure for safety reasons.
If methane were to escape from a high-pressure holder - a heavy machine-gun would suffice to bring that about - and spread over the town, then once it mixed to a certain degree with the surrounding air, the town would simply burn to the ground.
Accidents of this sort have occurred in the past; thank God we have managed to avoid them in the past ten years.
The same applies to the water supply.
It is relatively straightforward to poison water.
We can all imagine how immense the consequences of that would be.
Now, I accept that many in our countries are opposed to nuclear energy, and that, in some countries, they may well be in the majority.
